# Past Projects
This is a compilation of some of the past projects and notes I have taken for programming in various languages. My most recent works are on the bottom of the list, while my oldest works are on the top.

1) Notes in Python: Old Python.py is the first set of notes that I took for Python during my sophomore year in high school, which was the time I first started getting into programming. Python.py is the second set of notes that I later took during a college course to refresh my skills in Python. The funny part of these notes is that I learned Python while coding in Python.

2) Direct Messaging Interface Python: This project was when I started working with network protocols during a college course. When the program is run, a tkinter interface pops up, allowing for 2 computers to establish a connection in order to send and receive messages between each other.

3) Notes in Java as a Project: This is the set of notes I took when learning to program in Java. This is actually a project that contains many classes that I wrote to learn certain Java concepts. It is possible to open this project inside of an IDE like Eclipse to view its contents. Similar to my Python notes, I learned Java while coding in Java.

4) String Class C++: This is my replication of the STL String class that I wrote when I was first introduced to C++.

5) Template Array & Matrix Classes C++: In this project, I created an array class and a matrix class, both of them utilizing the template keyword in order to allow for whatever object type to be stored into the containers.

6) Query Generation SQL: This project is when I was assigned a couple of queries to try to replicate in SQL using a provided database, this having been my first experience using MySQL directly.

7) Image Manipulation MIPS Assembly: In this project, I had to do some bit manipulation in order to manipulate the appearance of an image I was provided. My program ended up looking quite complex, utilizing a couple of conditional statements and conditional loops that had to be written in an assembly language, MIPS.

8) Triangle Function Testing Java: After writing a TriangleType class that detected what type of triangle was created using inputted dimensions, I had to conduct some black box/functional testing and white box/structural testing using JUnit. Pictures of the results can be found in zip file as well.

9) Mock Portfolio HTML & CSS: After having learned the basics of HTML (semantics of a page) and CSS (styling of a page), I was assigned to create a mock portfolio for this project. W3C was used in order to validate that my HTML and CSS files were well-formed, while AChecker was used in order to validate that my webpage passed accessibility guidelines.

10) Completing Webpage JS & TS: For this project, I was provided a website written in HTML and CSS. My task was to program in JavaScript and TypeScript in order to do some computations and fill out the missing parts of the website.

11) Computing Matching Tokens Python: For this project, I was assigned to create various programs that ran through command line arguments. PartA.py consists of a function that tokenizes a text file, a function that maps each token to their frequencies in the text file, and a function that prints out the tokens with their corresponding frequencies. PartB.py consists of a function that returns the number of tokens that two files share, utilizing some of the functions from PartA.py.

12) Spotify API TS & Angular: In this assignment, I had to gather data from the Spotify API, develop a frontend interface with Angular, and make HTTP requests to a backend server to trigger API calls. The app itself provides a browser for users to browse music on Spotify.

13) Sleep Tracker TS & Ionic: This project involved creating a sleep tracker app that tracks the periods of sleep a user had and how they felt during the day. A demo video of how to use the app can be found in the project, being named "Demo.mp4". The video can be found within this repository as well.

14) Search Engine Python: After learning about concepts in web information retrieval, I was able to create a search engine that involved tokenizing, text processing, stemming, relevance ranking, offloading/dividing data, merging data, extracting important page content, indexing, searching, finding shared documents of query terms, and outputting top 5 search results. To actually operate this search engine, indexer.py has to be ran with a corpus (folder of data) named "developer". After a long time of indexing, search.py can then be used to search for the top 5 results of user-inputted queries.

15) Basic Lisp Functions: Lisp was the first functional programming language that I learned. For this project, I worked with something that is called "Pure Lisp", which is like a subset of Common Lisp that only used low-level built-in functions. I had to implement 15 functions in total, some of them requiring helper functions.

16) Prolog Relations: Prolog was the second functional programming language that I learned. For this project, I had to implement 4 different relations. The first one was eval(), which is meant to evaluate mathematical expressions, only taking in numbers. The second one was simplify(), which utilizes eval() to simplify mathematical expressions with variables. The third one was deriv(), which is meant to utilize simplify() to find the derivative of a mathematical expression. The final one was party_seating(), which takes a list of 10 people, who identify as male or female, and arranges them in a particular way. The rule for party_seating is that people at the party had to sit at a circular table, the people next to them being a different gender from them and sharing at least 1 common language with them.

17) TMGE Python: I was assigned a group project to build a TMGE (Tile-Matching Game Environment) in Python. The idea behind the environment is that it would act as a library for future tile-matching game programs to use. We had to prove that our program was useful by developing a game shell that supported two tile-matching games that utilized the TMGE. We chose Bejeweled and Tetris for our two games and theorized that Dr. Mario could potentially be a third game that would find our TMGE to be useful. All information and instructions on how to run the game shell can be found in the documentation file.

18) Notes in React, TS, & Vite: I decided to do even more self-studying in React but with TypeScript and Vite this time, doing a more rigorous review of general frontend development tools along the way. Specifically, I went through several different concepts, including functional components, different methods of styling, props, event handlers, hooks, form elements, updater functions, intervals, etc. Some of these components are more like projects on their own.

19) Notes in Laravel, PHP, & Vite: Preparing for my senior project, I took the initiative to self-study some PHP and Laravel early on. I learned how Laravel Herd can be used to host local servers, how the Blade view engine works with Laravel, how to use some Laravel directives, how Laravel can be used alongside HTML and (Tailwind) CSS, how Laravel handles page routing through requests, how to use databases alongside Laravel, and ways to organize/abstract code in Laravel. The README file contains a high-level overview of the files I took notes in.

20) MilMentor Dashboard Laravel: This was a capstone project where my team had to cooperate with an up and coming company, MilMentor, to create a dashboard for them to integrate into their currently existing website. MilMentor caters their services toward veterans and military families, providing them with mentorships and general resources for building a career outside the military. We used the Scrum methodology extensively, having consistent meetings with our clients and amongst ourselves. We utilized a project management tool called "Jira" to keep ourselves on track. This whole project included requirements gathering work, design work, and implementation work. Some of the requirements work and design work can be found within the "Resources.zip" file included inside of this zip file. Overall, I am especially proud of this project because my work was able to impact the lives of thousands of people. In terms of the tech stack, we had to know Laravel, PHP, HTML, and CSS.

21) ZotMarket Website React & Python: This was a website development project where my team had to build an ecommerce website for the whole quarter. To better manage the project and ourselves, we utilized a GitHub repository and Jira board. The project had 3 different phases. For phase 1, we did some requirements gathering, coming up with different artifacts to visualize what we wanted to build. For phase 2, we implemented the frontend of the website using React, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS, and Next.js. For phase 3, we implemented the backend of the website using Python, FastAPI, SQL, and Azure for our hosting our database. Then finally, we deployed the website using Vercel. Within this repository, a demo video named "ZotMarketDemo.mov" can be found. For easier access, here is a link to the demo video instead: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1w7n3Wtsr6o6527Xkq7jsc4ZORfZwzzkP/view

22) Machine Learning Report Python: This was the final project of a machine learning course I took. Essentially, my team and I had to practice a lot of what we had learned and done throughout the entire quarter, training and testing prediction models, then analyzing them to culminate an extensive report of our findings. Specifically, the classification models we analyzed were k-Nearest Neighbors, Logistic, Multi-Layer Perceptron (Feedforward Neural Network), and Decision Tree. The dataset that we trained these models is called "Diabetes 130-US Hospitals", which contains the tabular data around hospital admission records of patients with diabetes. Our report can be found within the zip file, being named "report.pdf". The jupyter notebook file contains the main code we worked on.
